In this session of
architecting modern iOS apps,
Part 2, we're going to be looking at
components of new hardware,
in particular the A7 chip.
And then we're going to take a
look at adopting the iOS 7 SDK,
but in a way that maintains
backwards compatibility with iOS 6.
Let's start off with building
your apps for the A7.
Now, of course,
the big news about the A7 chip is
that it's the world's first 64‑bit
processor in a mobile device.
Now, there was a lot of confusion
when we announced the A7.
A lot of people were wondering, well,
why on earth would I need
a 64‑bit chip in an iPhone?
Am I really going to need to address
more than 4 gigabytes of memory?
Well, truth be told,
there are a lot more benefits to
64‑bit than just a large address space.
This move to a new architecture has
allowed us to make many changes.
For example, we've doubled the number of
integer and floating point
registers available on the CPU.
These registers are where the
CPU performs its calculations.
So having more registers means that
it can spend more time performing
calculations and less time moving
data in and out of the CPU.
So ultimately, faster computation.
We've also used this opportunity
to adopt a new assembly language,
one that is more efficient and up
to the task of modern computation
than previous assembly languages
that we were using before.
So again, a more efficient assembly code
can mean faster performance.
The 64‑bit architecture of the A7 also
has allowed us to make optimizations
to the Objective C runtime so that
things like object allocation and
even the ability to run the A7 in a
single run can be done in a single run.
allocation,
and even basic memory management,
are now much faster.
All of these together means that simply
by recompiling your app for 64-bit
means that you can see some pretty
significant performance improvements.
I also want to mention that the
64-bit standard that we have adopted
on iOS is the same 64-bit standard
that we're using on the Mac.
So by having the same standard
for both 32-bit and 64-bit code,
it means that all of the code that
you write for your iOS apps is now
easily portable to the Mac as well.
This allows you to build apps that
will last on both iOS and Mac.
So that's a brief overview of
some of the benefits of 64-bit.
But let's take a look at how
64-bit will actually affect the
app that you ship on the store.
If we crack open your application bundle,
one of the very first things that we
will find is your executable file.
This is, of course,
where all of your code has
been compiled and will live,
and it contains all of the instructions
and all of your app's custom logic.
In addition to this file,
you'll have many resource files,
such as perhaps some nib files
or storyboards or perhaps both.
You'll have configuration files,
maybe some JSON files, P list, databases,
and so on.
And, of course, you'll have image assets.
So this is what your app looks like
right now running on a 32‑bit device.
But how does this change
for a 64‑bit device?
Watch closely.
[ Transcript missing ]
All you need to do to update your
architecture's build setting is to
find the build settings for your
particular target and in particular
find the architecture's line.
Now, by default, this value will be
standard architectures.
And so ARMv7 and ARMv7S.
All you need to do is change this
to be standard architectures,
including 64‑bit.
By changing this value,
you are indicating that when
we compile your app for release
build that we should be compiling
it a version as well for 64‑bit.
So, easy.
The second step is to update any
third‑party libraries that you're using.
All code that you run in a 64‑bit
app must be compiled for 64‑bit.
You cannot use a 32‑bit
library inside a 64‑bit app,
nor can you use a 64‑bit
library inside a 32‑bit app.
The architecture values must match.
And so if you're using
any third‑party libraries,
such as, you know,
connecting to somebody's
service or whatever,
then those must also
be updated for 64‑bit.
[ Transcript missing ]
However, these changes to the data
type sizes can cause some very
subtle errors in our code.
And also in the files that we create
on disk and also in the memory
that we use in an application.
So first up, 64‑bit in our code.
Now, one problem we might have is
if we have code like this,
where we're invoking a method that
returns an NS integer and we're
restoring the result of that method
invocation into an int data type.
Let's look at what's going on here.
Well, an int, as we know,
on both 32‑bit and 64‑bit
devices is four bytes long.
But as we just learned,
an NS integer on a 64-bit
device is eight bytes long.
And the last that I checked,
you cannot put eight bytes
of data inside four bytes.
And so something has to give.
And what gives are the top
four bytes of this number.
They're simply lost.
We never get them,
never can get that data back.
So that data is gone.
And if there was important
information in those bytes,
we now have corrupted
data in our program.
So the easiest way to fix this is,
of course,
to make sure that our data types match.
So the primitives that we're using
to store the results of method
invocations should match the return
types of those method invocations.
And similarly,
the types that we're passing in
parameters should match as well.
Dave DeLoong So we might be
doing something like this,
where we're copying a value
from a long into a buffer.
And here we've made the assumption
that a long is four bytes long.
And that would have been
true on a 32‑bit device.
But, of course,
it's false on a 64‑bit device
where longs are now eight bytes.
And so we are only copying half
of this number into our buffer.
And so, of course,
our buffer is going to end
up containing garbage data.
Dave DeLoong So the correct way to fix
this is to use the size of operator.
which will return the correct size of
this data type on that architecture.
So on a 32-bit device, it would return 4,
and on a 64-bit device for a long,
it would return 8.
By using the size of operator,
we can make sure that we're
correctly referring to the
sizes of these primitives.
Now, another way that 64-bit affects
us in code is if we're trying
to print a value into a string.
I expect this can be somewhat common.
And so if we're using a format specifier
like %d to print a long into a string,
whether it's via printf or something
higher level like NSString,
then that would have worked on a
32-bit device because %d indicates
copy 4 bytes of data into this string.
But of course,
that will fail on a 64-bit device because
4 bytes is only half of the number.
So what we need to instead do is
make sure that our format specifier
matches the data type and use,
in this particular example, %ld,
to indicate the long integer type.
And then our string will
contain the correct value.
Now, for many of these,
Xcode will warn you.
It will warn you that you are trying to,
or that you have mismatched data types.
It will warn you about format
string specifiers not matching
variable types and so on.
So simply by setting your architecture's
build setting to include the 64-bit
architecture and recompiling your app,
Xcode should be giving
you several new warnings.
Well,
hopefully none if we've been doing this,
correctly, all along.
But it might give you some to go and fix.
But it won't give you all of them,
which is why we are covering them today.
And the underlying rule with all
of these is to simply be consistent
in our usage of data types.
If we are asked for an 8-byte value,
then we will give an 8-byte value.
And if we're asked for a 4-byte value,
we will give a 4-byte value.
We should be consistent in how we
refer to the sizes of these primitives
and not assume that we know the size,
but simply ask,
"What is the size of this system?"
And it will give it to us.
So that's how 64-bit will
affect our app in code.
What about on disk?
Well, just as the problems as we saw
with transferring data between
stack frames could lead to
issues of truncation of data,
we can have that same issue with
passing data between devices.
If I write out an 8-byte value on a
64-bit device and give it to another copy
of my app but running on a 32-bit device,
if I haven't written my app correctly,
may end up only reading 4 bytes of data.
Now, you may be thinking, "Well,
this doesn't affect me.
"Like, I don't have any sharing
capabilities in my app "or,
you know, I'm not connecting "to any sort
of synchronization service or
anything." And for the most part,
you're right.
But we still need to be aware of this
because in addition to the scenario of
sharing data directly between devices,
there's also the scenario of the user
restoring their device from backup.
What do I mean about this?
Let's say one of your users has your
app installed on her iPhone 3GS.
And she's been using your app,
and your app has been writing files
out to disk and has been saving them,
and she has been performing
backups to iCloud.
What's been going on is that the
system has been taking those files
that you created on a 32-bit device
and sending them up to iCloud.
But then we announce the iPhone 5S,
and your customer has decided that
she doesn't want her 3GS anymore.
She's going to buy an iPhone 5S.
So she does.
And now to make the transition easy,
she's going to restore
her phone from backup.
And what this means is that the
files that you created and were
saved to iCloud will now be
copied down onto a 64-bit device.
So the files that you create
on a 32-bit device can still
be opened on a 64-bit device,
even if your app has no
direct sharing capabilities.
So again, like we saw earlier,
the key to fixing this and
making sure that we don't run
into problems is consistency.
We'll read what we wrote.
If we wrote a 32-bit
value out to this file,
then we should be reading
in a 32-bit value.
If we wrote out a 64-bit value,
then we should be reading
in a 64-bit value.
There are a couple of approaches
that you might take to this.
You could decide, for example,
that your app will always only ever
write 32‑bit values out to the file,
regardless of what
kind of device it's on.
Or it could take the opposite approach of
always deciding to write 64‑bit values,
again,
regardless of the device you're on.
The third approach is that you could
be a bit more dynamic about it,
where when you create a file,
you would include some extra
metadata to indicate that the values
in this file are 32‑bit values,
and so they should be
read in as 32‑bit values.
Or perhaps that the values
are instead 64‑bit values,
and therefore that you
should read in 64‑bit values.
These are all great approaches,
and you should pick the best one that
is appropriate for your scenario.
So that's how 64‑bit affects
your app on the disk.
Finally, 64‑bit in memory.
Now, because pointers are twice
as large as they used to be,
you will use more memory.
That is unavoidable.
You cannot escape pointers.
And you may think that to avoid this
overhead of all of your pointers
doubling in size that you will decide
to leave your app as a 32‑bit app.
And this sounds nice at first.
But there's actually a very ‑‑
Interesting gotcha with this scenario.
And it has to do with how the
operating system is implemented.
So let's consider this gray box
to represent how much memory we
have available on an iOS device.
Now, obviously,
some of this memory is going to be
taken up by the operating system
itself in order for the device to run.
And as part of the operating
system's execution,
it will be launching other applications,
such as checking for email,
connecting to iMessage, et cetera.
So these all take up
resources in RAM as well.
One of the other things
that we load into this,
into memory, is something that we call
the shared frameworks cache.
The shared frameworks cache is a single
copy of the standard system frameworks.
UI kit, foundation, core foundation,
CF network, and so on.
And the purpose of the shared
frameworks cache is to provide a
single location where any app that
we launch can just be pointed to use
that particular copy of the frameworks
instead of just using the app itself.
So we have each copy of the app,
or each app needing its
own copy of the framework.
But I want to point out
that on a 64‑bit device,
the shared frameworks cache by default
is the 64‑bit copy of the frameworks.
Which means that when we load
a 32‑bit app into memory,
we first have to load a second copy
of the shared frameworks cache.
A second copy of UI kit,
a second copy of foundation, and so on.
Just for this one thing.
So we load a 32‑bit app.
And only after we load the second copy
of the shared frameworks can we actually
load this 32‑bit app into memory.
Loading a second copy of the
frameworks means that your app
is much more likely to run into a
scenario of constrained memory and
getting a memory pressure warning.
So how do we avoid this?
The answer is simple, of course.
Recompile your app for 64‑bit.
And then don't incur the overhead.
: That's 64‑bit in memory.
That covers a large part of the
issues that will arise in 64‑bit,
the ones that we feel
will be the most common.
Of course,
the final step of adopting 64‑bit
is to test all of these changes.
By making these changes, you are,
however slightly,
altering the functionality
of your application.
And so you should be
testing these changes,
both in the simulator and on a device,
to make sure that your app still
behaves as you expect it to.
This is a great place to use the new
continuous integration feature of
Xcode 5 and OS X Server for Mavericks
so that you can have your server run
your unit tests and make sure that the
changes that you have made are valid.
So there are a lot more nitty-gritty
details to the 64-bit transition.
There's a really fantastic
guide in the documentation
that I encourage you to read.
It goes into some of the much more
edge cases of the 64-bit transition,
ones that we feel most
people won't run into,
such as having to use function pointers
that take variadic arguments and so on.
But we feel that this covers
the majority of cases.
We also believe that this will
be a relatively straightforward
transition for you.
Many of the developers that we've
talked to so far who have performed
this transition have reported back that
this is a relatively painless process.
One developer even reported that the
whole thing took only about five minutes.
This is probably on
the best possible case.
Might take a little bit longer for you,
maybe 15, no.
Hopefully you've been following
all of these patterns all along,
just as you should have been.
Now there's one other aspect of the
new hardware that I wanna talk about,
and that's the M7.
The M7, as you're probably aware,
is a brand new chip in the iPhone 5S
that is dedicated to monitoring motion.
So we have taken the accelerometer,
gyroscope,
and compass sensors and embedded them
in a single chip that we can keep
running for very cheaply all the time.
We can use this data to now infer
things about how the user is moving.
So for example, an iPhone 5S in my pocket
would say that I am walking,
right,
'cause I keep on walking back and forth,
as opposed to standing still.
It's very easy to use the
capabilities of the M7.
You just keep on using the accelerometer
and gyroscope and compass like you
have been for the past couple of years.
But there are a couple new features
that you can take advantage of.
Like I said,
we can now track the user's motion,
and for that you would use the
CM Motion Activity Manager.
Through the Motion Activity Manager,
you can request for updates
on the user's motion,
so you can be notified when they stop
walking and are now standing still,
when they start driving the car,
or at least are in an automobile,
when they're running, and so on.
And you can also request historical data.
We keep up to seven days of
historical data on the device.
And we saw how this can be really
awesome for a first launch experience.
Like, if you've got a device that
relies on this sort of data,
you can, the very first time the
user launches your app,
request up to seven days' worth of data
and immediately start presenting the user
with useful and relevant information.
The Motion Activity
Manager is simple to use.
You simply allocate a new
instance and ask it for updates.
You provide a block,
and it is through this block that
we give you a motion activity
object that contains information
about the user's current motion.
Now, the other thing that we've got
thanks to the M7 is step counting.
Like the Motion Activity Manager,
it is also extremely simple to use.
It's almost the exact same code,
except instead of a
Motion Activity Manager,
it is called a step counter.
But again,
you can start asking for updates,
provide a block,
and we will invoke this block
as the user takes steps.
So that was a brief look at the M7,
and of course, the A7,
and what it takes to
adopt 64-bit for your app.
Let's talk now about the M7.
We're now about building
an app for iOS 7.
We learned about some of the
great new features of iOS 7,
such as custom transitions,
or UIKit dynamics, or TextKit.
And we've heard in the
past that many developers,
they can adopt these new
technologies while still
maintaining backwards compatibility.
We get this question a lot.
How do I use these features,
but still support an
older operating system?
And many developers,
of course none of you,
but many developers are under
the impression that you can't,
that if you want to use new features,
that you must only support
that operating system.
We saw this very significantly
with the introduction of iOS
6 and UI Collection View,
where many developers refused to
use UI Collection View because
they still had to support iOS 5.
In this session,
in this part of the talk,
we're going to learn how you can
use all of these great new features,
but still support iOS 6.
It's totally possible.
I promise you can do it.
There are two parts to this answer.
First, of course,
you must use the iOS 7 base SDK.
If you want iOS 7 features,
you have to use the iOS 7 SDK.
That's easy.
The second part of this answer
is before you use a feature,
check to see if it exists.
If it does exist, of course,
you're welcome to use it.
If it does not, you shouldn't use it
because it's not there.
We feel that part of this
misunderstanding about using new
features comes from not understanding
the relationship between the base SDK and
the deployment target of an application.
So we're going to review
these really quickly.
The base SDK is the foundation.
The technological foundation of your app.
When your app runs on a device
that corresponds to your base SDK,
it should be the full feature experience,
the best that you can possibly do.
This value is actually encoded
into your application binary.
It's in the header of your
executable that we saw earlier.
And we encode the value that you
use for your base SDK so that
devices that run your app can
intelligently choose how they behave.
Amen.
If you think about it,
an app that's compiled with the iOS
6 SDK is not expecting the iOS 7 look
and feel when run on an iOS 7 device.
And if you run an iOS 6
app on an iOS 7 device,
that's, of course, what you see.
You see it still looking and
behaving like an iOS 6 app.
And that's because the framework inspects
this value that's encoded in the header,
what value you used or what
SDK you used to compile the app.
And it conditionally alters its behavior.
It says, if this app was built
for iOS 6 but not iOS 7,
then I'm still going to take the old code
paths and behave like an iOS 6 framework.
Now, for your apps, this, of course,
should be set,
the base SDK should be set to use
the latest iOS SDK so that you can
take advantage of all of the great
new features in the iOS 7 SDK.
But that does not mean you
give up support for iOS 6.
That's what your deployment target is.
You should be setting your
deployment target to iOS 6.
As we saw this morning,
96% of iOS users are
running on iOS 6 or iOS 7.
It's not really worth your time to
focus on the 4%. Dave DeLoong The way
to look at this visually is we've got
this history of iOS releases here.
If we wanted to build an app
that supports iOS 6 and iOS 7,
then we would set our base SDK to be iOS
7 and our deployment target to be iOS 6.
They represent a minimum
and maximum value.
So that's just a quick reminder as to
what the SDK and deployment target are.
Dave DeLoong Going back now to how
do we adopt these new features?
How do we check to see if a feature
exists before we try to use it?
Dave DeLoong Well,
there are a couple of different kinds
of features that you might check for.
New frameworks and new classes,
new methods,
new device and system capabilities,
whole lot of new designs, and of course,
new device architectures.
First up, how do we adopt a new
framework or a new class?
In iOS 7,
we have a brand‑new framework called
Game Controller that allows your games
to interact with external hardware,
such as, you know,
a game controller that contains a D‑pad,
so that users can play your
games with physical devices,
with physical buttons.
Now, in order to use this, you,
of course, would need to link against
the Game Controller framework.
And by default,
the Game Controller framework
will be a required framework,
which means that your app will refuse to
launch if Game Controller is not present.
Now, that's not what we want,
because we still want our
app to launch on iOS 6,
where Game Controller did not exist.
So in order to do that,
we need to go to our link binary
with libraries build phase.
And change Game Controller from
being a required framework to
being an optional framework.
By changing this
framework to be optional,
we are allowing our app to
continue launching even if
game controller is not present.
So this is how we can
adopt a new framework.
We make the framework optional.
What about in code?
What about all those game controller
classes that we'll need to use?
What happens to those?
Here's a snippet of one way that
we might use the game controller
framework to start listening
for wireless game controllers.
Now, of course,
this will work fine on iOS 7
because game controller exists.
But what about iOS 6?
What happens with that
GC controller class?
When you specify that a
framework is optional,
what happens is when your
app is loaded into memory,
part of that loading process is
that the system will go through
and find all of these symbols,
these class names and
constants that you're using,
and it will resolve them.
It will either point them at the
correct place to wherever they exist
in whatever framework they're from,
or if they're not there, they become nil.
And I hope you all know that
it is totally safe to send
messages to nil in Objective-C.
We're not like other languages where
we might crash your application.
On iOS 6,
this is no problem at all because
this line of code simply does nothing.
So this code, as is,
without any modification,
will work fine on iOS 6 and iOS 7.
But this behavior of things becoming nil
can have some unintended side effects.
For example, another part of the game
controller framework is to listen
for a particular notification.
The GC controller did
connect notification.
This notification is posted, obviously,
when a controller is actually
connected to the device.
Now, on iOS 7, this works.
And as we saw on iOS 6,
this GC controller did connect
notification symbol would become nil.
And that might sound nice,
but this particular code
has unintended side effects.
As it so happens,
if you listen for a nil notification
name coming from a nil object,
you will actually be notified
about every single notification
for any name posted by any object.
And that is a lot of notifications.
This is probably not what you want.
Dave DeLoong If we want to use
this particular notification,
we need to check to see
if the symbol exists.
And we do that by checking to see
if the address of the notification
symbol itself is not nil.
If the address is not zero or is not nil,
then it is safe to use it.
If it is nil,
then obviously don't try to use it.
Dave DeLoong So these are how we can
adopt new classes and new frameworks.
We make new frameworks be optional.
Dave DeLoong And for new
class names or new classes,
we make them optional.
Dave DeLoong And for new symbols,
we simply check to see
if they're nil or not.
Dave DeLoong Adopting new methods.
So earlier,
we learned about UI motion effect and
how we can use UI motion effect to add
that hint of depth to our user interface.
We do that using this method on UIView,
add motion effect.
This of course is a new method in iOS 7,
works great.
But on iOS 6 this will crash your app,
because UIView knows nothing about
the addMotionEffect method on iOS 6.
Now we can't do a nil check here
because of course UIView exists.
It's just this method that doesn't.
So what we do here is we use a
method that's on all NSObjects
called respondsToSelector.
This is a method where you pass
in the name of another method,
and it will return yes or no to indicate
if that particular method exists.
So if our view responds to
the addMotionEffect selector,
then of course it's safe to use.
And if it doesn't, we shouldn't.
We like it when our apps do not crash.
So this is how we can
safely adopt new methods.
Just check to see if they exist,
using response to selector.
There are times when we
add new capabilities,
both to the operating
system and the hardware.
We just learned about the
CM Motion Activity Manager.
And while this is a new class in iOS 7,
it's really only useful on a
device that contains the M7 chip.
And so if we wanted to use
the Motion Activity Manager,
checking to see if
CM Motion Activity Manager is nil
or not is an insufficient check,
because it could be non-nil,
but still not be able to
track the user's motion.
And so when we add new
capabilities to the hardware or
new capabilities to the software,
we also provide a corresponding check
to see if those features are available.
So we can check to see if we
can track the user's motion.
We can check to see if they can send
email or if they're able to print,
if they can monitor for certain
kinds of location regions.
We can even check to see if iCloud is
enabled using the NS File Manager API.
In general,
these methods usually return a Boolean,
which means they're very easy
to use as the condition to
an if statement like this,
where if this motion tracking
activity is available,
then of course it's safe to
create a Motion Activity Manager.
This is how we can safely adopt
new capabilities while still
maintaining backwards compatibility.
Now in iOS 7,
we have adopted a brand new design
language in our applications.
And you may be wondering,
what's the best way to check for that?
That's not something that's really
tied to a capability of the hardware,
and it's not really something
that's tied to any particular
new class or new method.
And the way we've seen some developers
try to figure this out in the past is
doing something like taking the system
version string and trying to parse it
as a number and comparing it to see
if it's larger than 6.1 or something.
And that'll probably work.
It's a little gross.
But there's a much better way to do it.
And that is using the
NS Foundation version number
constant in the Foundation framework.
This is a constant that's
been in the framework since,
well, Mac OS 10.0 and thus iOS 1, really.
And for every major release
of the operating system,
pretty much, we've been updating this
Foundation version number.
And we've also been providing known
or well-defined version numbers for
what the particular version was of the
framework for a particular release.
And so you can use this
Foundation version number to compare
it to these well-known values,
like this.
You get the Foundation version number,
and you check to see,
is it less than or equal to an iOS
6 style appearance for your app?
If it's greater than this value,
then you would default to
an iOS 7 style appearance.
So this is the safest and best way
to check to see what version of the
operating system you're on when that
particular check is appropriate.
Finally, adopting new architectures.
So we learned about a few minutes ago.
We have the brand new
64-bit chip in some devices.
And it's possible that you might
want to write code that is specially
optimized to only run on 64-bit devices.
And the easiest way to do that
is to authorize the system to
affect how your app is compiled.
We learned about these
different slices of your app,
where your code will be compiled
one way for a 32-bit app and
another way for a 64-bit app.
Using this compiler directive,
this __LP64 directive,
we can safely segment our code
such that only portions of it
will be compiled for 64-bit,
and other portions would
only be compiled for 32-bit.
This is somewhat uncommon to use,
but we are seeing some developers
who are wanting to take advantage of
the significant horsepower available
via the A7 CPU and GPU to optimize
for those particular scenarios.
And this is the best way to do that.
So those are the main ways that
we would check for new features.
But we're not done yet.
: We could put these if checks
wherever we wanted in our code,
but I want to talk now about how
we can successfully encapsulate and
hide these checks in a way such that
only the people who really have to
care about them know about them.
Because if we were to scatter these
checks everywhere throughout our code,
we would quickly
We've come to a state in our
code base where our code is messy
and unmaintainable and ugly.
And code like that is
just not fun to work on.
So we're going to learn about three
different ways that we can encapsulate
these feature checks in a way that
makes them easy to use and beautiful.
The first way is using a class cluster.
If you're not familiar with this term,
it's a pretty straightforward concept.
A class cluster is a class
that has a single interface
that is not a single interface,
but multiple implementations.
Now, this isn't magic.
It's really just using
private subclasses.
And this is actually a really
common pattern in our frameworks.
Anytime you use almost any object
from the foundation framework or many
objects even from the UI kit framework,
you are likely dealing
with a class cluster.
This allows us as framework
implementers to optimize what
version of the framework we're using.
Dave DeLoong So the common example,
of course, is for NSArray.
If you have an array that is
never going to be changed,
we will give you one
implementation of NSArray.
But if you have one that will
be changed and is thus mutable,
we will give you a
different implementation.
But we even go beyond that.
We can look to see if you're going
to be putting hundreds of thousands
of objects into a mutable array,
we might even give you a
different implementation.
One that is optimized for
much larger data sets.
And the beautiful thing about
class clusters is that none
of this is exposed to you.
You don't have to worry about
whether you're putting three objects
into this array or three million.
All of that is hidden from you.
Class clusters make this easy to do.
Class clusters are a great
way to encapsulate feature
checks related to new classes,
version checks, and capabilities,
or even architectures.
And as we'll see,
it is extremely easy to remove
obsolete code with class clusters.
So let's go through an example.
Let's say I'm writing an app
that downloads something.
Maybe it's levels for a game or it's
movies for displaying to the user.
In order to perform these downloads,
I'm going to create a
download controller.
And this is an object that I'm just
simply going to say here is a download.
I want you to begin it
or pause it or resume it.
And our other code will do just that.
We'll interact with this download
controller and say begin this,
pause that, resume this, and so on.
We want to use a class cluster to
implement our download controller.
In iOS 7, we have this great new API with
NSURL session for being able to
perform downloads in the background.
So even after the user
stops using our app,
we can still continue their downloads.
We could not do this on iOS 6.
We could kind of approximate
downloads like that,
of course, with NSURL connection.
And so we want to fall back to that
API if the newer one is not working.
So we're going to make download
controller actually a class cluster.
We will have two private subclasses,
one for the new API and
one for the old API.
Dave DeLoong
Now, the interface for our download
controller is really simple.
We have a convenience constructor
for creating a new instance,
and then we have just simple methods
to start or pause or resume a download.
The implementation is
where it gets interesting.
As I said,
we have these two private subclasses.
One is a download controller that's
specific to the NSURL session API.
And then the other is a download
controller that's specific
to the NSURL connection API.
Then when we're asked to
create a download controller,
we perform our feature check.
We see does NSURL session exist?
If it does, then I know that the new
API is available to me.
And so I will create the
download controller that
is able to use the new API.
If it doesn't exist,
then of course I will default
back to supporting the older API.
I don't get as many features,
but I can still perform downloads.
That's the basic idea of a class cluster.
Nobody who's using the
download controller actually
knows that this is going on.
They just see download controller.
They don't see the specifics
of how it's being performed.
And maybe next year,
we decide to drop support
for iOS 6 in our app,
which means we don't need the
NSURL connection code anymore because
NSURL session will always be available.
In this case, it is trivial to remove the
code that we don't need anymore.
We simply delete a few.
We don't have to go wandering all
around in our code base finding every
single place where we were performing if
NSURL session class does not equal nil,
then use an NSURL session,
else use an NSURL connection.
We don't have to do that because we
successfully encapsulated this feature
check in a way that only one person
or one object had to know about it.
And so when we decide to make changes,
we only have to make it in one place.
Another pattern is data sources,
or if you like the more technical term,
this is the strategy pattern.
Whereas class clusters solve
this problem through subclassing,
data sources solve this
problem through composition.
We have a data source object
that encapsulates the logic,
and we can swap data sources in
and out to get different logic.
And again, like class clusters,
this makes it very easy to
encapsulate feature checks
related to new capabilities,
new classes.
And so let's decide now that we
want our download controller to
actually use this data source pattern.
Well, again,
we have the exact same interface
for our download controller.
It's the beauty of these patterns.
We can change the
implementations wholesale,
and the interface never changes.
So what would this look
like in the M file?
Well,
instead of having two private subclasses,
we would actually have a
concrete download controller.
But it would have a property for another
object that performs the downloads.
In this case,
I've made it conform to a protocol,
a downloader protocol.
You can imagine that this is a
protocol that would define a start,
a pause, a resume method, and so on.
Then the download controller constructor
would again perform our feature check.
If the NSURL session class is available,
then we will create a downloader data
source that knows how to use the NSURL.
So we can create a downloader data
session API.
If NSURL session is not available,
we will create a data source that knows
how to use the NSURL connection API.
And then we will finish the allocation of
an actual download controller by passing
it a handle to this data source object,
this strategy object.
And then when we ask the download
controller to pause or resume a download,
all it really does is it turns
around and asks its downloader data
source how to actually do that.
And that way the download
controller doesn't have to
worry about the specifics.
It can leave those up to the downloader.
Like class clusters,
when we no longer need
our NSURL connection code,
it is trivial to remove it.
Again, we just delete a few lines,
and now we've removed all traces
of our NSURL connection code,
and nobody is the wiser for it
in the entire rest of our app.
We only had to modify code in one place.
So, class clusters and data sources,
as I've been saying,
make it very easy to encapsulate
feature checks related to new classes,
new capabilities, new designs,
and new architectures.
But they don't work very
well for new methods.
For that, let's use a category.
If you're unfamiliar with a category,
the basic idea is that you can
use categories to add new methods
to classes that are not yours.
So, for example,
if you really wanted a new
method on NSString that,
you know, did something that's very
specific to your application,
you could add that method to
NSString itself using a category.
Categories are an excellent
way to encapsulate feature
checks related to new methods.
So, we saw this example earlier that
trying to create a motion effect
on iOS 6 and add it to a view
would cause a crash because the add
motion effect method doesn't exist.
Now, we could put the response
to selector check here.
But we want to keep this code
very linear and easy to read.
So, instead of putting the check here,
we're going to create a new method on
UIView that will perform the check for us
and then forward on to the next method.
So, we're going to create this category
to define a new method called
TT underscore add motion effect.
We've named this method such that
it's obvious what its purpose is.
And we've given it a prefix to
make sure that we're never going to
interfere with another method on UIView.
The implementation of this
method is extremely simple.
Here in this method,
we simply check to see does the view,
or in this case self, respond to the add
motion effect selector.
And of course, if it does,
then it is safe to
invoke add motion effect.
And if it doesn't,
then we'll just drop the message
on the floor and not do anything.
Now, everywhere else in our app,
all we have to do is use
tt_add_motion_effect.
And then we can safely
construct motion effects,
which may or may not return nil,
and pass them to our new add
motion effect method without
any worry of our app crashing.
And we have kept our app running.
And we have kept all the rest of
our code in our app simple and
easy to read and understandable.
Now you may be thinking, well,
I've still scattered
this all over my app.
Once I drop support for iOS 6,
is it difficult to remove this
category when I don't need it anymore?
No, it's actually quite easy.
Xcode has some refactoring tools.
And so the way that you would remove this
category when you don't need it anymore
is to simply rename this category method
to the actual method name in UIKit.
What this will do is it will go
through your entire code base and
find everywhere where you're using
this custom method and replace it
with the actual selector from UIKit.
Once this is done and it
takes about three seconds,
you're safe to delete your category
because you don't need it anymore.
This is how you can safely adopt
new methods while still maintaining
backwards compatibility with iOS 6.
I want to end by talking about the
concept of backporting features.
As I talked about earlier,
there were some developers who were
resistant to adopting UI collection
view because their justification
was that it does not exist on iOS 5.
That's okay.
For many of you,
your app already worked fine on iOS 5,
or for this year,
it already works great on iOS 6.
You can still adopt these features,
but just make them conditional
to only run on iOS 7.
What then would you do on iOS 6?
Just leave your app as it is.
Some features are simple enough
to approximate on older devices.
As we saw with downloads,
we can perform backporting.
We can do background downloads on iOS 6,
but we can get pretty close
with NSURL connection.
That's a feature that's easy to
approximate on an older iOS device.
And so it's probably worth our time
to invest in that development cost.
But if you wanted to use
game controllers on iOS 6,
you would have to rewrite that
entire framework yourself.
I don't recommend that you do that.
That would be a lot of work.
So in those cases,
it's all right to scale back the
experience of your application if
certain features are not available.
We see game developers do this.
For example, when we had the introduction
of the iPad Air,
one of the things that we
showed was Infinity Blade 3.
And the Infinity Blade developers
talked about how for the new device,
they were able to ramp up the
effects in Infinity Blade.
But they only did that
for the new device,
where the capabilities were present.
They didn't try to put all
of that texture in detail on
the dragon on an iPhone 4,
because an iPhone 4 can't handle that.
It does not have the capabilities.
We can learn from their wisdom.
Just as they apply this rule
to the graphics of their game,
we can apply this rule to the
features of our app as well.
Let's make the best possible app that
we can for the latest possible system.
And for older versions
of the operating system,
We can leave our app as is,
maybe backport some things
if it's worth our time.
So that is a look at how we can adopt
new features of the iOS 7 SDK while still
maintaining backwards compatibility.
I want to thank you all for coming today.
Remind you that the labs are still open.
You're welcome to come and ask
us all the questions you have.
I hope you have a great
rest of the afternoon.
Thank you.